Okay. In this video, we wanna go ahead
and implement our endpoint for the REST
service. And you can see what I've done
here, I've created a controller, our
CategoryController. I don't
think I pointed this out yet, but I am
doing versioning. It's a best practice
when we're developing REST API. Has to do
like a version one. So if we ever modify
this in production, we can do a version
two, if there's a major change that we're
going to make to the API structure and
this will allow your clients to go to the
version,
the next version, when they are ready to
adapt to the changes. So kind of a best
practice that I'm showing you here.
I'm also adding that into my package
names as well. So that's why I did the v1
there. So if we want to evolve this API,
we can do so. Now, just like the last time,
I got the stub with a service
set up here. And now, I've created a test
and introducing you to a new annotation
here, @InjectMocks. So I have the CategoryService, and then, I have @InjectMocks. And
what the sanitation is going to do is
automatically inject that Category
Service into the controller. So we no
longer need to build the controller that
way. So we can just get rid of that line.
And now, if I come in and run the test,
I'll go ahead and run these right now.
Since we don't have the implementation,
we are expecting the test to fail, and we
see that we're getting a 404 not found
error. Again, we're getting that on both
of them because we have not implemented
those. So let's go ahead and implement
those functions now on the Category. Now
we do need to make one minor change here.
So let's take a quick look at our API
spec. So we're gonna have categories
and it's gonna be a list of
categories. But that's an actual object.
so we can see the JSON object there. So
what we wanna do is create a DTO
object for that. Let's come out here to
our model and we're gonna do a new Java
class on the CategoryListDTO. And let's...
We're gonna create one property here.
We just wanna call that
categories. Now, Project Lombok is
gonna give us a constructor for that as
well and that will give us all set for
that. So here, what will return back is
a ResponseEntity of the type
CategoryListDTO. We'll return back a new, I'm gonna
say new and that's gonna take in a
list of categories. So our categoryService. That also takes on the
HttpStatus. Let's clean this up a
little bit so that's a little more
readable there. So in this, just do a GetMapping on it and remember, we wanna go
to this url api/v1/controllers. So when we
do a GET against that, that is what we
are going to return back. So let's
go ahead and run our test now. You
can see that the first test case is
passing. Let's go ahead and implement
the next one. It's also gonna return
back a response on it. And this time, it's
gonna be a CategoryDTO. So we're
returning back one.
Again, this is gonna be GetMapping. But
this time, I'm gonna do by. Give this a
@PathVariable, new ResponseEntity again,
and it's gonna take in that CategoryDTO.
So we'll do a categoryService.findByName. It was a okay. So that would
set up that mapping. And we ran into a
failure here so we're getting a 404 not
found. I didn't need to do with
squigglies. That was my mistake.
Let's try this again. So now, both tests
are passing and let's take a closer
look at that test. A couple things I wanna show you here, we are doing a MockMvc
or performing a get against that URL. And
now, we're saying contentType of
APPLICATION_JSON and we're saying we
are expecting a status of isOk. And
then, we're also using matchers here of
jsonPath. So I am looking examining the
JSON object. So the dollar sign is the
root and I'm saying categories. I'm
expecting to have two elements in there,
which it did, because we are passing that.
And now, on the getByName, you can see
that we're also setting up the object by
named and returning it with a mock again.
And now, we are going against the URL to
that name value. And I am coming back and
looking at the JSON object that was
returned and saying that it is equal to
by name. So in this case, both both tests
are now passing for us.